# Assignment Two: Randomization
You have selected the sites that you wish to recruit (see assignment one) and now need to meet with the program officers and other key stakeholders to recruit these sites to participate in your Pretend New Green Deal (PNGD) jobs program. Specifically, the program officers have concerns about randomization and would like to have a meeting to discuss. The program officers are worried about the optics and ethics of only offering the program to half of eligible individuals (as opposed to, e.g., having individuals select into it until there are no more seats).

Please write out what you plan to say at this meeting in full sentences and create either a hand out or brief presentation that will accompany your verbal presentation. You should make sure to explain the following:  

- The benefits of randomization in terms of assessing impact; and
- The justification of randomization from an ethical standpoint (one way to think about this might be to anticipate ethical/moral concerns they may have to randomization and address them directly, e.g., do we know that receiving the programming is a benefit compared with not receiving it?)

Please include any amendments to the research protocol that you think should or could be part of the design, if any. As an example, in medical trials if harm is detected at early stages of the experiment or if the benefit early on appears to be sufficiently large, researchers will end trials early to either stop those assigned to treatment from continuing to receive a detrimental treatment or to provide a clearly beneficial treatment to everyone earlier than the initial evaluation timeline.

Your presentation (both your written out talking points and accompanying materials) should be written in concise, easy-to-understand, non-scientific language that is accessible to practitioners with or without any statistical training. Words that you are not allowed to use include: _bias, efficiency, gold standard, placebo, systematic_. You can use words such as randomize and confounding only if you also use more colloquial language to explain them. Your resulting product should be something that a family member of yours who works in a completely different field and has no experience with data science or program evaluation would easily be able to read and understand.

One potential organizational structure for this assignment would be to address the two points above in turn, first writing around one paragraph on what you will say about the advantages of randomization over non-experimental designs and then another 2-3 paragraphs (page and a half) addressing concerns, wherein you clearly and succinctly identify each concerns and address it in 3-4 sentences and then move on to the next. You may alter this as you see fit, but should make sure to be clear and concise. Oftentimes less is more (talking around a point that you are struggling with is as likely to end up with you saying something inaccurate, unintended, and confusing as it is to end up with you saying the ‘right’ thing somewhere in the ramble). If you need a long first draft to clarify your thinking, that is great, but please hand in only a succinct, clarified final copy of what you will say at these meetings (along with any visual aids to your presentation) or a video of your “live” presentation.

### Bonus Points
There is also a debate as to what the control group should be offered in this study. Specifically, the question is whether the control individuals should be offered no job training/preparation services (above and beyond what they can find on their own independently) or a spot on a waitlist to take place in the PNGD at a future date. The latter is a waitlist control design and has pros and cons from a research standpoint. Which would you advocate for and why? What are the pros and cons of these two different designs in terms of what we are able to learn about the impact of the program? Please respond in one to two paragraphs. Feel free to offer a third option if you would like, explaining why you think it would be a better approach than either of the above.

<br>
<br>
<br>
